BEANXPORTER END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT -- 

FOR USE IN FOLLOWING EUROPEAN UNION 
COUNTRIES: AUSTRIA, BELGIUM, DENMARK, 
FINLAND, GREECE, IRELAND, ITALY, LUXEMBOURG, 
THE NETHERLANDS, NORWAY, SWEDEN, AND U.K.



GENSYM CORPORATION ("GENSYM") IS WILLING TO LICENSE 
THE BEANXPORTER SOFTWARE AND THE ACCOMPANYING 
DOCUMENTATION INCLUDING AUTHORIZED COPIES OF EACH 
(BEANXPORTER) TO LICENSEE ONLY ON THE CONDITION THAT 
LICENSEE ACCEPTS ALL OF THE TERMS IN THIS AGREEMENT.

PLEASE READ THE TERMS CAREFULLY BEFORE CLICKING ON THE 
"YES" BUTTON. BY CLICKING ON THE "YES" BUTTON, 
LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT LICENSEE HAS READ AND 
UNDERSTANDS THIS AGREEMENT AND AGREES TO BE BOUND BY 
ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

IF LICENSEE DOES NOT ACCEPT THESE LICENSE TERMS, 
GENSYM DOES NOT GRANT ANY LICENSE TO BEANXPORTER, AND 
LICENSEE SHOULD CLICK ON THE "NO" BUTTON TO EXIT THIS 
PAGE.


1. LICENSE GRANT

(A) License Rights

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, 
Gensym grants a limited, non-exclusive, license to use 
one copy of BeanXporter for the purpose of developing 
applications for the Microsoft Windows environment.  
This copy of BeanXporter must be used by a single 
developer (single user).  Licensee may not network 
BeanXporter or otherwise use it for development on 
more than one computer at the same time. Licensee may 
make a copy of BeanXporter for archival purposes.  
Licensee may transfer its copy of BeanXporter together 
with its documentation on a permanent basis, provided 
that Licensee notifies Gensym as to the name and 
address of the recipient and that such recipient 
agrees in writing to the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement.  Licensee is permitted to distribute
within its own site any runtime files and
applications developed with BeanXporter. The
BeanXporter runtime files are listed in Exhibit A.
For purposes of this license, a site is a single
physical or geographical location such as an office
complex, headquarters, production facility, and so on,
that is part of the same organization. 

(B) General License Restrictions

BeanXporter is licensed to Licensee only under the 
terms of this Agreement, and Gensym reserves all 
rights not expressly granted to Licensee. Licensee may 
not use, copy, modify, network, electronically 
transmit or transfer BeanXporter, or any copy thereof, 
except as expressly provided for in this Agreement. 
Licensee may not reverse engineer, disassemble, 
decompile, or translate BeanXporter, or otherwise 
attempt to derive the source code of BeanXporter.  If 
Licensee requires access to the source code of 
BeanXporter to achieve interoperability of BeanXporter 
with other software, Licensee will inform Gensym 
accordingly.  Gensym can then decide either (i) to 
perform the work in order to achieve interoperability 
and charge its then-standard rates for such work to 
Licensee; or (ii) to permit Licensee to reverse 
engineer parts of BeanXporter to obtain such source 
code but only to the extent necessary to achieve such 
interoperability. Licensee may not sell, rent, lease, 
or loan any part of BeanXporter to any external third 
parties.

No right, title, or interest in or to any trademarks, 
service marks, or trade names of Gensym or Gensym's 
licensors is granted hereunder.

(C) Runtime OEM Distribution License

A separate Gensym OEM license agreement is required 
for the commercial resale of licensee applications 
created with Gensym's BeanXporter or containing 
Gensym's BeanXporter runtime files.  See Exhibit A for 
a list of files needed for runtime usage of 
BeanXporter. Please contact Gensym at 
Beanxporter@gensym.com for special commercial 
licensing provisions. 


2. LIMITED WARRANTY

Gensym warrants that the software herein will perform 
substantially in accordance with the accompanying 
written materials for a period of 30 days from the 
date of receipt. Where applicable, if Licensee 
qualifes as a "consumer" under the Magnuson-Moss Act, 
then Licensee may be entitled to any implied 
warranties allowed by law for the period of the 
express warranty as set forth above.  Some 
jurisdictions do not allow limitations on how long an 
implied warranty lasts, so the above limitation may 
not apply to Licensee. Gensym's sole obligation under 
this warranty shall be limited to using reasonable 
efforts to correct material, documented, reproducible 
defects in the unaltered BeanXporter that Licensee 
describes and documents to Gensym during the 30-day 
period. In the event that Gensym fails to correct a 
material, documented, reproducible defect within a 
reasonable period, Gensym may, in Gensym's discretion, 
replace the defective BeanXporter software, or refund 
to Licensee the amount that Licensee paid Gensym for 
the defective BeanXporter software and cancel this 
agreement and the licenses granted herein. In such 
event, Licensee agrees to return to Gensym all copies 
of the Software.  Some jurisdictions do not allow the 
exclusion or limitation of relief, incidental or 
consequential damages, so the above limitation or 
exclusion may not apply to Licensee. GENSYM DISCLAIMS 
ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE EITHER 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF PERFORMANCE OR MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NON-
INFRINGEMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE, THE 
ACCOMPANYING WRITTEN MATERIALS AND THE PROVISION OF OR 
FAILURE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT SERVICES. YOU BEAR ALL RISK 
RELATING TO RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE OF BEANXPORTER. 
GENSYM DOES NOT WARRANT THAT BEANXPORTER WILL MEET 
YOUR REQUIREMENT, OPERATE WITHOUT INTERRUPTION, OR BE 
ERROR FREE. NO GENSYM AGENT OR THIRD PARTY IS 
AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ANY MODIFICATIONS OR ADDITION TO 
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY.  THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES 
LICENSEE SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS AND YOU MAY HAVE OTHER 
RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.

3. MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

Gensym has no obligation to provide maintenance for 
BeanXporter under this Agreement.  Software Updates 
will be deemed Software hereunder and unless subject 
to terms of a specific update license, will be 
furnished to Licensee under the terms of this 
Agreement. Gensym will provide Licensee with limited 
technical support by electronic media for a period of 
30-days after delivery of BeanXporter to Licensee.

4. CONFIDENTIALITY

BeanXporter is the confidential and proprietary 
information of Gensym and/or its licensors. 
BeanXporter is protected by United States copyright 
law and international treaty. Unauthorized 
reproduction or distribution is subject to civil and 
criminal penalties. Licensee agrees to take adequate 
steps to protect BeanXporter from unauthorized 
disclosure or use.

5. TERM, TERMINATION AND SURVIVAL

(A) This Agreement will immediately terminate without 
notice if Licensee fails to comply with any obligation 
of this Agreement.

(B) Upon termination, Licensee must immediately cease 
use of and destroy BeanXporter or, upon request from 
Gensym, return BeanXporter to Gensym.


6. LIMITATION OF DAMAGES

TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, 
GENSYM'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO LICENSEE OR TO ANY 
THIRD PARTY FOR CLAIMS RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, 
WHETHER FOR BREACH OR IN TORT, WILL BE LIMITED TO THE 
FEES PAID BY LICENSEE FOR SOFTWARE WHICH IS THE 
SUBJECT MATTER OF THE CLAIMS. IN NO EVENT WILL GENSYM 
BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, 
INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE IN 
CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT 
(INCLUDING LOSS OF BUSINESS, REVENUE, PROFITS, USE, 
DATA OR OTHER ECONOMIC ADVANTAGE), HOWEVER IT ARISES, 
WHETHER FOR BREACH OR IN TORT, EVEN IF GENSYM HAS BEEN 
PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 
LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES WILL BE LIMITED AND EXCLUDED, 
EVEN IF ANY EXCLUSIVE REMEDY PROVIDED FOR IN THIS 
AGREEMENT FAILS OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE. SOME 
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION 
OF SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR 
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES OR THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY TO 
SPECIFIED AMOUNTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR 
EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7.  U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS: 

BeanXporter is "commercial computer software" or 
"commercial computer software documentation."  If 
Licensee is a unit or agency of the United States 
Government, then the United States Government's rights 
with respect to BeanXporter are limited by the terms 
of this Agreement, pursuant to FAR ' 12.212(a) and/or 
DFARS ' 227.7202-1(a), as applicable.

8. EXPORT LAW

Licensee agrees that BeanXporter nor any product 
therefrom is being exported, is being acquired or will 
be acquired for, shipped, transferred, or reexported, 
directly or indirectly except as permitted by the laws 
and regulations of the United States and the laws and 
regulations of the jurisdiction in which you obtained 
BeanXporter.


9. GOVERNING LAW

This Agreement shall be governed by, and any 
arbitration hereunder shall apply, the laws of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, U.S.A., excluding (i) 
its conflicts of laws principles; (ii) the United 
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International 
Sale of Goods; (iii) the 1974 Convention on the 
Limitation Period in the International Sale of Goods 
(the "1974 Convention"); and (iv) the Protocol 
amending the 1974 Convention, done at Vienna April 11, 
1980.  Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out 
of or relating to this Agreement or to a breach 
hereof, including its interpretation, performance or 
termination, shall be finally resolved by arbitration.  
The arbitration shall be conducted by three (3) 
arbitrators, one to be appointed by Gensym, one to be 
appointed by you and a third being nominated by the 
two arbitrators so selected or, if they cannot agree 
on a third arbitrator, by the President of the 
American Arbitration Association ("AAA").  The 
arbitration shall be conducted in English and in 
accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of 
the AAA, which shall administer the arbitration and 
act as appointing authority.  The arbitration, 
including the rendering of the award, shall take place 
in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A. and shall be the 
exclusive forum for resolving such dispute, 
controversy or claim.  The decision of the arbitrators 
shall be binding upon the parties hereto, and the 
expense of the arbitration (including without 
limitation the award of attorneys' fees to the 
prevailing party) shall be paid as the arbitrators 
determine.  The decision of the arbitrators shall be 
executory, and judgment thereon may be entered by any 
court of competent jurisdiction.  Notwithstanding 
anything contained in this paragraph to the contrary, 
Gensym shall have the right to institute judicial 
proceedings against you or anyone acting by, through 
or under you, in order to enforce Gensym's rights 
hereunder through reformation of contract, specific 
performance, injunction or similar equitable relief.

10. NO ASSIGNMENT

Neither party may assign or otherwise transfer any of 
its rights or obligations under this Agreement, 
without the prior written consent of the other party, 
except that Gensym may assign its right to payment and 
may assign this Agreement to an affiliated company.

11. OFFICIAL LANGUAGE

The official text of this Agreement is in the English 
language and any interpretation or construction of 
this Agreement will be based thereon.  In the event 
that this Agreement or any documents or notices 
related to it are translated into any other language, 
the English language version will control.

12. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Agreement is the parties' entire agreement 
relating to BeanXporter. It supersedes all prior or 
contemporaneous oral or written communications, 
proposals, warranties, and representations with 
respect to its subject matter, and following 
Licensee's acceptance of this license by clicking on 
the "Accept" or "Yes" Button, will prevail over any 
conflicting or additional terms of any quote, order, 
acknowledgment, or any other communications by or 
between the parties. No modification to this Agreement 
will be binding, unless in writing and signed by an 
authorized representative of each party.


Exhibit A - Files Needed for Runtime Usage

JavaContainer.dll
ax2jbeans.jar
